officialy hello everybody welcome to the
educators assemble livestream we're
going for this being the sequel return
of the edge youtubers after what
happened last week but we're not going
to talk about that even though I just
did so the idea of this is we are all
sort of educational people who operate
online and on social media and we
thought it'd be super fun to all get
together have a bit of a chat we've sort
of been titled at a fax session is the
C's the most appropriate title so we're
going to take it in turns in five
different rounds to talk about various
things about ourselves about our
subjects obviously please do interact in
the live chat we will also have time to
answer your questions and different
things as well
I'd say that's about it rather than me
bubbling on any longer I feel like well
maybe I should introduce myself first so
we have an order we have a running order
next to me on my board which you
probably can't see cuz I'm currently
quite small but this is gonna be the
order going to go in each round and then
the rounds are written over here on this
side of my board so round one is
introductions so I guess possibly as
this is hosted on my channel I'm very
fortunate the majority of you may
already know about me and what I do but
short and sweet I am a mathematician I
teach at the yes I should change the
view off gallery right because now we're
going okay so Who I am a mathematician I
teach at the University of Oxford I do
lots of online stuff it's all Tom rocks
maths website Tom rocks max calm I even
got it tattooed on my arm so I'll zoom
into the camera to show off and what I
try to do is get across my passion for
maths and try and make maths as fun as
possible in short a couple of other
things that I do that I want to point
out I've been on numberphile a fair bit
which is by far the best online mass
Channel even though in theory I suppose
that my competitor they are so great so
if you're a numberphile fan you may
recognise me some of their videos I've
also collaborated with other mass
channels so to be blue one brown grant
is amazing I managed to convince him to
do math speed-dating with me
which is very entertaining and so I'm
gonna recommend everyone check that out
as well and the other thing I do which I
won't be doing today is one of my ways
to try and make maths more entertaining
and fun is I often perform as The Naked
mathematician so this involves me
basically doing math lectures in my
underwear so if you if you're keen maybe
you're not imagine most you probably
won't be but if you are those videos do
also exist they're called equations
strict on my YouTube tunnel right so
passing over next to Gaby Gaby would you
like to tell us all about yourself
sure hi everyone my name is Gaby um if
you're coming from my Instagram page you
would know me as Gabe love's t-cells so
um that will be in my little name card
in the bottom left hand corner
I am a rising second year immunology PhD
student at the University of Michigan so
I'm from the United States and my thesis
project is studying how obesity
contributes to increased morbidity and
mortality during bacterial infections so
very very interesting to me at least and
so I have three main platforms that I do
science communication on I have my
Instagram which is Gabe love's t-cells I
have my youtube channel which is just my
name Gabi Huizenga and then I also have
a podcast called tales of a grad student
which is available on Spotify Apple
podcasts pretty much everywhere that you
can find your podcasts and really what I
try to do as a science communicator is
normalised women in stem and women in
medicine there's a lot of misconceptions
out there that we might be boring or
stuck-up but really I'm just your
average girl I love fashion I love
hanging out with my dog I like going for
runs I love being in the lab and so I'm
just trying to normalize what it's like
to be a woman in this environment and
get more women and girls excited about
stem so I'm going to pass it over to
Matt now
hello guys my name is matthew espinosa
I'm so excited to be part of this
amazing group of educators
I'm obsessed of anything from
connectivity to memory and now a
recently language learning I'm actually
a memory champion in a chess champion
here in Canada and I love productivity
anything involving productivity and I've
actually created brain companion which
is this kind of educational brand as a
literal companion for your brain on
Instagram I focused more on myth versus
truth
for example people believe that you use
10% of your brain when in reality you
use pretty much all of it all the time
when you're sleeping so I try to give
accurate information over on Instagram
on YouTube I focused more on study tips
I'm doing a challenge right now where
I'm learning French in one month and I'm
gonna be showcasing my progress at the
end of the month and have a new video
coming out tomorrow
ideally talking about how to be a genius
like Albert Einstein where I analyze his
daily routine his mindset different
actionable techniques that you can use
from his day to day life and that sort
of video is kind of interesting
I recommend typing in brain companion on
YouTube of course after his livestream
and I think the link is also in
description if not mistaken and be sure
to check out everyone else as well
they're doing some really cool stuff
I'll pass it over now to Kathy Nina
thanks with you and thanks to you that I
can even be here so I'm Catalina Finch
I'm an Italian polyglot and I just love
languages
I actually am studying my sixth language
right right now which is Chinese so I do
yesterday six languages and that's what
I kind of showcase on my Instagram on my
YouTube I'm actually yeah trying to get
people to be motivated to learn
languages I give them tips tricks how to
learn languages how to effectively learn
languages and at the same time I do a
lot of collapse right now I'm having a
collab with me and to be French yeah I
just showcased that on my instrument and
where I'm that's my name I am cutting a
finish and it's just on YouTube cutaway
nothing's yeah that's about me
hi guys um I'm Betsy I have a physics
degree from Cardiff University here in
the UK I graduated about four years ago
and since then I've been working as a
systems engineering consultant the
companies like Airbus EDF Energy and
Commerce Center for fusion energy and
I've recently started a science to be
honorable called size of Fe so basically
ever since I have been working I've been
volunteering for stem activities so
doing presentations at schools and
attending careers fairs and schools
universities and even airports so I've
just been trying to get involved as much
as I can and then like a couple of
months ago I was thinking how can I
extend my reach how can I reach more
students and more young adults so that's
why I started my youtube channel and I
feel like growing up I never really had
that relatable science role model and
they were like amazingly intimidatingly
intelligent and most of them were male
so I guess that's what I'd really like
to be I feel like physics especially has
a really bad reputation for being a
boring nerdy and difficult it's all kind
of summed up and Sheldon Cooper I think
and I would love to try and break that
stereotype yes I guess I started the
challenge
break down barriers that tell students
that only a certain type of passed them
can be good at STEM subjects and trying
to encourage people to get involved get
excited by and engaged in science so
yeah I make little physics videos that
are about three to seven minutes long
and I try and make them funny and silly
but also get the educational content
across and I think in the future if this
goes well I would love to fall I'm
telling to the other STEM subjects you
know just keep it all going so that's me
on to Danny thank you so I'm Danny
Hatcher you can find me on Instagram
Twitter Facebook Linkedin and YouTube
all Danny Hatcher exactly the same
exactly the same profile picture and my
background I've done my undergraduate
degree in sports coaching mainly focused
on pedagogics not just football my
master's degree is currently in strength
conditioning which is similar to a PT
and that for high-performance athletes
and I'm actually not doing anything with
regards to regard to my higher education
so I help people students and some
businesses work smarter rather than
harder so just because you're doing
putting loads of hours into something
doesn't necessarily mean you're actually
getting towards your goal and I know as
a student I was putting hours of work
into something and sometimes I'd look at
anger actually I haven't got any closer
to the goal I set out to do and to
actually try and help people to be a
little bit more intentional with their
work currently use it through using an
app called notion and those of you that
don't know what notion is essentially it
is a task management project management
all in one workspace that you can create
what you want and so it's class there's
a no code app that you can take notes on
and do whatever you want with and I try
and help people use the app to be as
productive and efficient with their time
as they can very similar to what what
Matt talks about so that's a bit about
me and I can't remember who's after me
so Tom help
I believe that's me hi everybody my name
is Chelsea Barreto I am currently an
environmental science and biology
teacher in New Jersey in the USA
before that I got my masters in ecology
and I focused on mangrove ecosystems in
Florida and in the Bahamas looking at
how climate change impacts those
ecosystems so I started my my Instagram
page which is Chelsea B biology not too
long ago because I'm really interested
in science communication and bridging
the gap between the public and
scientists and to have a place where
even younger kids can go and look at
facts that are broken down or science
lessons and hopefully in the future some
fun science videos which I'm starting to
work on so yes that's kind of why I
started my Instagram I just love science
communication and want to share some bio
knowledge with everyone I can so that's
me on to you Julia hello I am the last
speaker in the round so when you see my
face you know we're going back to Tom
after that so I am Julia Evie I'm a
final year PhD student at UCL in London
and I study neuroscience talk studied
neuroscience now for eight years I'm in
my eighth year at my University and
really it all sorted out with I just
have a passion for the brain and trying
to understand how our brains work so I
decided to start a science communication
and over about two years ago now and
halfway through my PhD and the real
motivator for this was because a lot of
my friends on scientists and they were
really interested in my work and I just
think why should scientists work be kept
among scientists I think we have a duty
to the public to share our work with
everyone and especially my research
which is an Alzheimer's disease so many
people are affected by Alzheimer's
disease and dementia and I think that
those people deserve to know the most
up-to-date information
from the field so I started my Instagram
two years ago and then I branched out
into YouTube about six months ago I'm
like a very chatty person and adverse or
it'll be fun to get a bit more
interactive with my content so I started
to make videos all about the brain so
it's a little series called your brain
explains all about the different things
that make us human and then also videos
about science in the new
and coming out and most recently I
started documenting my PhD thesis
writing journey it's painful and I
thought I want to share that pain with
everyone so that is what you can find on
my youtube channel
it's just Juliet rainy V science and
that's the same for all my social medias
so back to you Tom awesome Thank You
Julia
I feel like we're doing like a news
program whether were you like back to
you Tom over the Steve super fun right
so thank you very much everybody for all
the introductions hopefully everyone
tuning in you now have a bit more of a
feel for everybody that's involved in
the live stream so we've got again I've
written all of the subjects here to
remind us all but we've got Gabby of the
immunology mat study tips at arena
languages
vexy physics Danny notion is online
platform Chelsey biology and Julia
neuroscience so if you have any
questions specific to any of those
topics then pop them in the live chat
and we will as I said we're gonna try
our best to answer some questions in
between the rounds but seeing as I can't
see any current questions and you know
that was just the intros round let's
kick off with some actual content so
round two
again this is on this side of my board
it's really helpful having a giant black
board number two we're going to talk
about fun facts about our particular
field our particular subject and the one
I want to tell you all about relates
again to another one of my tattoos so I
have quite a few maxxbass tattoos not
every round will be appropriate to a
tattoo though quite a few of them will
so I want to tell you all about a
particular sum or a particular series in
maths so if we start with the following
if you take let's say the number one and
then you add the next number in the
series is going to be 1 divided by 2 and
then you take the next one which would
be 1/3 and 1/4 and we go forever so we
want to calculate the total of this sum
and it's going to go forever and a
pattern if we were to write it
mathematically
we're doing the sum of 1 over N where n
starts from 1 and goes to infinity so
don't worry if this notation makes no
sense to you the key thing is it's 1
plus 1/2 plus 1/3 plus 1/4 plus 1/5 and
you keep going forever and ever and ever
now this is equal to infinity or tends
to infinity I should say if I'm doing
this properly now my super fun I'm not
going to show you that that is a fun
fact in itself but my favorite fact is
actually what happens when you very very
slightly modify this particular
expression so instead of having 1 over N
if you change this to N squared then you
do 1 plus 1 over 2 squared so that
becomes 1/4 1 over 3 squared so 1 over 9
and it'd be 1 over 16 and then it would
be 1 over 25 and you would carry on so
you're just doing 1 divided by the
square numbers and you add all of these
together so all we've changed is made
the number of squares on the bottom so
this 1 is not equal to infinity this 1
is equal to pi squared divided by 6 now
hopefully if you've never seen this your
mind has been blown or you have no idea
what I'm talking about either way this
is my favorite math fact if you do 1
plus 1 divided by all of the square
numbers your total is PI squared divided
by 6 and it was actually no reason for
that to be the answer but yet I can
prove it 10 different ways but I still
don't believe it's true and that is why
is my favorite math fact oh and two I
didn't mention that I would say
something about the tattoo relation so
on my arm here so this line at the top
is 0 the first line is 1 the next one
would be will plus 1/4 plus 1/9 and
carry on forever and the dotted line is
PI squared over 6 so it's like a visual
representation of my favorite math fact
right Gaby
everything well jeez it's hard to follow
that one tom and so my favorite
immunology fact is actually not related
to what I study um it is related to
immunotherapy and so basically what
immunotherapy is is taking your own
cells and taking them outside of your
body and modulating them in some way and
then putting them back into your body to
treat some sort of disease or tumour
that you have so this is a really hot
spot right now for cancer therapy it's
really really hard to treat cancer
because cancer is a disease of your own
body it's your own cells that are
mutated to grow and divide without
control it is your body on steroids it
has no control and so one of the cool
things that I really like in
immunotherapy are car T cells and so
basically T cells are immune cells that
are constantly circulating through your
body and so what you can do is take a
blood sample and purify the T cells and
then engineer them with a receptor that
is specific for your specific tumor so
maybe it's a liver tumor or a blood
cancer and maybe like a skin cancer and
then those T cells can get put back into
you and because they're your own cells
your body isn't going to recognize them
as foreign and so you'll be able to
tolerate this therapy very well and your
own cells can go and attack your tumor
and I think that is so so cool if I
wasn't doing what I am now I definitely
would want to be in cancer immunotherapy
because it is such a cool research spot
and it has the possibility to help so
many people
so um outside of doing host bacterial
infections I also learn a lot about
cancer therapy so that is my favorite
immunology fact and now I'm going to
pass it on to Matt okay that's a really
cool fact Gabby thank you so much for
sharing since I focused mostly on study
tips I didn't want to share an
interesting study that they had I think
four to five years ago the relation of
chewing gum so if you actually chew gum
when you're studying let's say you're
studying physics for example that's
perfect for scientist Becky let's say
you're studying physics and you're
chewing gum
if you chew that steam gum while you
take your physics test you actually have
a higher correlation if I'm actually
doing well on the test because there's a
higher familiarity between that kind of
flavor especially even like with songs
to listen to song in a test but if you
just do the same action of chewing gum
when you're studying something and then
when you're taking a test shooting an
exact same flavor important part of the
flavor then you're actually able to
remember the things that you when you
did when you first choose the gum and
you often just correlated with higher
results and then something I also wanted
to share study tip wise is that most
people believe that the best answer for
a test for multiple choices see we're
always joke around that Oh sees the best
answer if you have to guess yes see they
had to do another study basing the for
multiple choice answers if you have a
multiple choice question from A to D the
best answer is actually B at 28% so
normally it's like 25 25 but B actually
has the highest chance so if you have to
guess Gatsby which is come interesting
and then to go along with that the
answers are from A to E so the options
are a to e the best option in that case
is actually to choose e so this fork
like a 2d choose B but if it's a to e
then choose e but and it's something
interesting to do when you're studying
hopefully kind of increase your marks a
couple little hacks and on to Catalina
thanks math serve the idea is to answer
them all right so my favorite facts in
language learning is actually and that's
something I can I even believe myself is
that languages can change the way your
personality is and reflection depending
on what language you speak right now and
I think I came up with my own reason for
this so if I speak German my native
language
I am confident right I'm confident
speaking it but then when I switched to
other language
actually sometimes back up saying stuff
I want to say because maybe you're not
that confident talking in the second
language but I reread another article
that says that every language is linked
to a culture right and there was
actually actually a study where people
my lingual spoke Spanish and English
when they wrote 50 minutes about
themselves they when they wrote in
Spanish they wrote about their family
they wrote about enough they wrote about
the relationships when they on the other
hand wrote the same texts about
themselves in English they wrote more
about school they wrote about business
so that also kind of shows that every
language is linked to culture and that's
so interesting in my opinion so it's
actually great and I think that can
actually lead to your personality
changing depending on what language news
page there was my little fun fact in
languages and I'm excited to hear you
hear your sexy yeah that was sorry
Katarina in Iceland and my fun fact is
about the hottest place in our solar
system
so our solar system consists of our star
which is the Sun and the eight planets
that surround it and you'd assume that
the hottest place in the solar system is
the Sun because it burns at about 50
million degrees C which is pretty high
and but actually the hottest place in
the solar system is right here on earth
scientists have built machines that have
trumped the Sun's core temperature like
so now produces a machine that can burn
at about 4 to 5 trillion degrees C which
is huge now I want to talk about one
that's here in the UK and I want to talk
about fusion so whilst the jet reactor
at the kalos center of fusion for energy
is up and running this is the hottest
place in the solar system so basically
the Sun produces its energy through
nuclear fusion and in order for the
hydrogen atom
to fuse into helium they have to be
traveling really really quick and the
Sun facilitates this by having really
hot temperatures which gives them energy
and therefore speed and it has an
immense pressure whereas when we're
trying to replicate this on earth we
don't have the same amount of pressure
that the Sun does so we have to up the
temperature in order to get the hydrogen
atoms to move as quick as we can to get
lots of views therefore we have to run
this reactor about a hundred million
degrees C so when we're running these
pulses of plasma is burning at a
hundred-man degree c and i think that is
crazy and this is it's just so important
to try and research fusion and stuff at
the moment because it's a renewable
energy it's much safer and less
radioactive than nuclear fission which
is what we currently use and I mean the
fuel is hydrogen which we have an
abundance of so yeah I think the main
the main struggle at the moment is
trying to get the temperature lowered
the hydrogen atoms diffuse there's a lot
of tough work in there to get it going
but yeah I think that's why that's my
call the fact the fact that we can house
the hottest temperature in the solar
system when some of these machines are
running I think it's just incredible and
on to you Danny thank you
like I'm following people I'm learning
like every single foot everything every
single thing someone has said I'm like I
didn't so I'm learning with with
everyone watching and so obviously
motion is is an app I could give facts
about the app but that's just features
of the app so I'm actually gonna take a
little little bit of a different route
and go theories so social science
theories and some of you maybe if
familiar with Parkinson's Law and
essentially it suggests that the longer
the longer you have to do something the
longer it'll take you to do it and a
good example that I use when explaining
this to a lot of students is if you have
an essay deadline say in September and
it's January it will take you that whole
time to do it you either do a little
bit's all the way up until you get there
or you do what most people do and do
absolutely nothing until like two weeks
and
at all in and that is essentially
Parkinson's at all and if you what I try
and do to change that using notion is
actually a sign of due date so your your
you normally have a due date so when the
S is due in if you set yourself due date
so when you're going to action something
so you're going to do the introduction
in January you're gonna do the first
part in February and you can you can
essentially change that so the
Parkinson's law will then change to the
the due date as long as you're
consistent with yourself and so you can
actually get something done in a shorter
amount of time then you may think so
when you are doing essays or assignments
or revising for something instead of it
taking six seven nine months in case of
doing PhD like Julia if you're spreading
all out and you certainly go let's do my
PhD like the last month bad idea bad
idea so spreading out and putting due
dates in so you can get the things done
in that time gives you that that spare
time to either edit critiques synthesize
information or just give you free time
to relax because you've already done it
and I use a notion to do that by putting
due dates in but you can use any sort of
calendar app or just a piece of paper so
that's my fun Theory fact over to
Chelsea nice that makes a lot of sense
okay so um biology is a really broad
topic so I decided to focus again on my
favorite tree mangroves my favorite
ecosystem so if you haven't seen
mangroves they're the super cool trees
that you find in the tropics that have
these big aerial prop roots they're
called prop roots so if you've ever gone
like kayaking in Florida or in the
Bahamas or something you might have seen
these really cool trees again my
favorite so the fun fact about them is
along with their cool aerial prop roots
they also have something called new
metaphors which are breathing routes so
basically they the big aerial roots go
down into the mud and then the ends of
them stick up and at the end of that
they have an opening that allows them to
basically breathe and take in air so if
you haven't seen it you should Google a
picture of mangroves and
they're cool new metaphors are breathing
routes yeah I just think they're awesome
and that's my fun fact over to you Julia
great I'm so interesting so my fact is
going to be about a specific region in
the brain it's probably my favorite
brain region and it's called the
hippocampus so the hippocampus is the
memory region what it actually is it
doesn't store your memories
it's the region that acts like I say
acts like a personal trainer so when you
get new information a new experience
happens in your short-term memory the
hippocampus then decides whether that's
really important and your brain wants to
keep that or if it's not important it is
important hippocampus will activate and
it will start to strengthen all of the
brain cells involved in that experience
now if you remove the hippocampus from
someone's brain which I would not
recommend but was done back I think in
the 1960s or 50s a long time ago there
was a patient who had his hippocampus
removed because after being in a road
accident he had really really bad
epilepsy around that region of his brain
so the doctors took out the hippocampus
and they found that his seizures were
really lessened even like cured so it
did its job in terms of the epilepsy but
what this person was left with is a very
very short memory so they could remember
things for only 30 seconds and that is
because that trainer wasn't in their
brain to be able to switch on the
neurons to say we need to keep this
information and this person could only
remember information from a year before
their accident so what this tells us is
the hippocampus keeps training these
memory traces in the brain for almost a
year to keep them in that permanent
storage so this man could remember
things from a year before his accident
and then after that he lived till he was
in his 80s and he only had a 30 second
memory and this is all - the brain
region that is really affected in
Alzheimer's disease is one of the first
regions to lose brain cell
and that is why the main symptom of
Alzheimer's the first thing you see is
the memory loss so yes that's my fact so
now back to Tom for the next round Thank
You Julia
I feel like super super interesting but
that poor chap oh dear but that's also
my again like like Danny said I
literally learned something new from
every single person so this is super fun
for all of us as well as hopefully
everybody else watching so thank you
again everybody for sharing your fun
facts right we've got at least one
question so you know what seeing as we
want to make this as interactive as
possible I'm gonna throw our current one
live chat question over to you Betsy so
Beth has asked question for Betsy how do
they get the temperature that's hot
without melting what it's contained in a
great question Beth yeah so the first
thing we do is we contain it in a
magnetic field so we like control the
shape of the plasma using little eggs
and magnets and keep it in the path and
that contains it in kind of the center
of the reactor so like this reactor is
I've done a lot of shape it's a tokamak
and so it keeps it in there kind of
throwing up shape and so yeah hopefully
the hottest bits of the plasma are just
right in the middle and we build the
first wall so the container as far away
as we can I guess and for the first wall
we just use stuff like tungsten or
beryllium just like really strong metal
so nothing too special but it's that
type of thing that's stopping us from
running really long pulses where are you
running you know 20 seconds at the
moment because our materials can't
handle the like neutral load the heat
you know everything that comes with it
all so yeah that's it Thank You vexy um
I actually interviewed a couple of fluid
dynamicists so I didn't mention the
beginning for everybody my research is
in fluid dynamics in bats and I
interviewed recently a couple of fluid
dynamicists who
working on the fusion problem and that
you were just describing because
combustion itself is basically a fluids
problem and so they're actually heavily
involved in trying to create this fusion
reactor like you mentioned about trying
to create this new source of renewable
energy yeah they're currently just using
up more energy trying to get the thing
going then we're getting out of it so I
think this the next thing we need to
figure out as well yes right okay then
I'm not seeing any more questions yet so
of course everyone in the live chat do
kill you know if a question pops into
mind when somebody's talking do you just
ride it in the chat and then we'll come
to it at the end of the round I think is
gonna be the problem as you can tell I'm
making this up so I go along freestyling
I'm so I think we're going to round
number three then we see the mythbuster
this is the one I've been looking
forward to the most
so I think the way I interpreted this is
we're all going to present something
that is a myth in our subject field and
hopefully try and correct it or at least
talk about why it's a myth or you know
so so this should be quite interesting
for sure and I'm specially forward to
Matt so I'm going to the mall but
especially Matt I see you saying a lot
of what he does is actually like busting
city myths so I hope he's got a good one
for us so the one I'm going to talk
about in something that obviously from
Matt's and it's something that's talked
about as basically something you can't
do in short and and generally that's a
good rule but I'm going to give you an
example of why maybe it might not be as
true to say you can't do it and what I
mean by this is 0/0 so I guess the myth
is that 0/0 is nonsense and we cannot
possibly make sense of what 0/0 is that
is what I'm calling the myth and what
I'm going to say is in fact 0/0 can be
absolutely anything that you want it to
be the trick is to do with how you take
your limit so that depends on the
function that actually is going to equal
zero divided by zero so as an example if
I want to consider the classic example
would be sine x divided by X so this
my function and I want to take the limit
as X goes to zero so when I just if I
were to just substitute in the values
sine of zero is zero X at zero is zero
so this is zero divided by zero now if
you do this properly as in you do the
rigorous maths behind it and take the
limit in the correct mathematical manner
this will be equal to one
in fact but this does not mean that zero
divided by zero is one because I'll give
you another example if I consider sine
of X divided by I think I want to do x
squared and take the limit as X goes to
zero again sine of zero is zero x
squared is zero so it's zero divided by
zero but this one is equal to and I make
sure I write one down
yeah this one goes to infinity
so in this though in the top case case 1
0 divided by 0 is 1 case 2 0 divided by
0 of is infinity and then I'm going to
give you case 3 which will be the limit
as X goes to 0 of sine X divided by the
square root of x again sine of 0 is not
the square root of x square root of 0 is
still 0 and this one is equal to 0 so 0
divided by 0 can be literally anything
you want it to be as demonstrated by
these threes at 3 examples very similar
functions they are all evaluating 0/0
but you're taking the limits in a
different way each time so you get 1
infinity or 0 right over to you Gaby
well that definitely blew my mind as
someone that has historically struggled
in math that oh that was a lot for me to
take in but that's really cool okay so
my immunology myth is that the flu
vaccine will give you the flu I have
heard many people say this my own
parents have said it I have said it I
for a long time said that I would not
get the flu vaccine because it gave me
the flu and I'm here to tell you today
that that is a myth so the flu vaccine
that we get every single year is usually
made up of three to four different flu
strains however there can be even more
than four flu strains circulating at any
given time and is up to microbiology
experts epidemiology experts immunology
experts to try and determine which
strains are going to be most popular for
that year sometimes they get it right
and everyone who gets the vaccine gets
protected and sometimes they get it
wrong and there is a different strain
that's going to be circulating also it
takes the flu vaccine about two weeks to
fully get your immune system trained so
what a vaccine does is it takes a small
portion of whatever pathogen so it can
virus or bacteria and it goes into your
body and either it's mutated in some way
that it can't replicate or it's possibly
a dead bacteria or a dead virus and so
your immune system will see it and train
itself to recognize the unpaid but it
does take a good amount of time to get
that memory response and so if you're
infected with the flu but to me about
like two weeks between the time that you
get the vaccine and the time that you're
fully trained you still are going to get
a reaction to the flu and get sick so
you're not getting the flu from the
vaccine you're getting it just because
you got the vaccine at the wrong time so
I highly encourage everyone that is able
to get the flu vaccine to get it as soon
as it's offered so I usually get mine in
September or October because the earlier
that you get it before the peak flu
season starts it gives your body more
time to develop that trained immunity
and protect yourself if you do get the
flu so that is my mythbuster for
immunology and I'm going to pass it over
to Matt awesome no that's really cool
yeah I actually learned about the flu
shots in school and I find it very
interesting the misconceptions around it
so thank you so much for sharing my
mistress's troop and I focus more on
mrs. truth on my Instagram page like I
do like every three days I have one that
kind of kind of blows my mind as well
but one thing for at least for studying
wise I talked to a multiple choice
before but now let's talk about true and
false if it's true or false you have to
guess which is the one that has the
highest chance well based on another
study recently it's actually quite a
recent study the best option is actually
true
mostly because as humans when we
actually write out the question we often
think in a true response we don't often
slip her mind and think in a false
response so true actually has a 56
percent chance of actually being correct
so that's kind of a short kind of
Memphis's truth the other thing that I
hear a lot is that do we either
left-brained or right-brained which
frankly is it isn't true at all
we actually use pretty much move our
both sides of her brains equally and
this idea kind of came from how one side
of her brain sometimes controls the
other side of the brain for example when
you're writing if your right hand it is
often more left brain dominance but that
being said there isn't just a whole side
of your brain that's more left side or
right side so I think that's something
that's a very common myth but isn't very
true I even remember taking a test in
grade 10 saying if I was left or right
brained
and I thought it was true but it's not
so something interesting to share now on
to Catalina I show you some language
tips Thanks thanks Matt so I think yeah
I want to share with you and I think
many have encountered in the life is
that people think they're not talented
enough for their oh oh oh it's to learn
languages and that's that's also me and
that's a total misconception like I
sometimes talk to people and I'm like
alright wait if they tell me you want to
learn I want to learn this language and
I tell him why don't you learn language
I'm not talented enough I am I think
that's that's not true because it's
actually shown that adults learn better
than kids and many people think that
kids learn languages best but that is
just because they're in the environments
of this language so they actually learn
pick it up so fast but the thing is it's
actually a myth that just because you're
a winner or just because you're think
you're not talented you cannot pick up
the language because it's actually and I
think my people like many people can
agree with me I'm sure I said you can
agree with me it's actually all about
consistence it's all about practice of
course nobody gets born that knows how
to make math equations it's not about
talent all the time of course you can be
more motivated to learn it so you get X
over long term but it's actually how
consistent you are in a language and
that's a great quote I read today they
say that you want to be fluent in a
language work for it and I think many
people can agree like if you work for
something hard to get fluent it's not
about you being too old or you not being
talented but back see what they have
what do you have for us
that was a really good Katarina but it's
annoying because I always say I'm
inherently rubbish at languages so
you've kind of taken away my excuse
there for trying but yeah so my
mythbuster it's a common misconception
that's actually permeated into kind of
everyday language and it's that weight
and mass are the same thing and they're
not so when we talk about oh how much
does it weigh how much do you weigh we
should actually be asking about maths so
mass is like the amount of physical
matter that's in an object and it's
unchanging and its measured in kilograms
whereas weight is a force and it can
change depending on which planet you're
on so the equation for weight is mass
times the gravitational constant
so like the gravitational constant here
on earth is 9.81 meters per second
squared so yeah that would make it
different to if I was on the moon I
would weigh a different amount a tional
constant on the moon is 1.6 meters per
second squared so if I weighed like a
hundred kilograms just to make it easy
maths if I had the mass of a hundred
kilograms
I would weigh 981 Newton's here on earth
whereas on the moon I would only weigh
160 to Newtons
well my mass will still be the same I
would still have a mass of 100 kilograms
so if you're wondering how scales then
work then they work by measuring it the
force that's being applied to them but
they'll be calibrated to know that the
gravitational constant is 9.81 and it
will take that into account and so it
will measure your force fit it would
read back to you your mass in kilograms
so if you took some scales from here on
earth and took them to the moon you know
it'd give you a completely wrong reading
on your mats because it would be
dividing by the wrong gravitational
constant so yeah
mass is not the same as weight and if
you refer to your weight in terms of
kilograms and you are over to John
thank you I mean so like just going on
that I remember in school when when we
were taught this I'm like yeah yeah that
makes sense but I don't think you're
gonna change the way people speak I mean
never know maybe every one of maybe
everyone will make change their mind but
so again like I don't really have like a
fact so I'm gonna go with it a bit of
theory this is a little bit something
like personal to me but also to some
other people being busy is not the same
as being productive and so I was when
when I was younger I was always told
oh you're you're really busy you must be
really good at doing whatever no no I
was busy doing stuff but again very
similar to what I said at the start just
because I'm busy doing things doesn't
mean I'm actually doing anything that's
there's useful that's worth worth doing
that's intentional so there's a couple
of things that I've done through notion
you could do with many other things and
to prioritize your time and one one
technique that I know Matt's done a
couple of stuff on is called the
Pomodoro Technique which is essentially
you do 25 minutes on five minutes off or
you can change that time up depending on
where your flow state is how you're
feeling but essentially if if you do
eight hours of work one day you might
have done nothing towards your goal if
we go back to the essay example I know
when I was doing my my essays for first
and second year I was a very busy person
cleaning the house it was not getting my
essays done and so I wasn't being
productive with my time and and and
something else that you could use is the
Eisenhower matrix which is essentially
two-step question is it important is it
urgent if it's not if it is and it just
says should you do something should you
schedule something should you just
delete it just get rid of it or do you
need to action it and there's loads of
other different ways and things that you
can prioritize your time but essentially
just because you're being busy doesn't
mean you're being productive and getting
where you want to go so that that's my
little my little tip over to Chelsea
yeah but that makes a lot of sense so my
myth is a pretty common myth in biology
and I see it a lot as a biology teacher
it might seem pretty simple but there's
a big misconception especially again
with students that evolution and natural
selection are the same thing so
evolution as some of you probably know
is the change in species over time while
natural selection is the process that
drives evolution so people get them they
use them interchangeably when really
they are kind of different so for an
example if modern humans suddenly went
back to the Ice Age
we wouldn't suddenly mutate right and
start sprouting thick coats of fur
instead the individuals that happen to
be hairier due to their inherited genes
would have more insulation and be more
likely to survive the colds reproduce
and pass on their hairy genes to their
offspring so that's the process of
natural selection which gradually drives
evolution over time but that's it for me
Thank You Chelsea the box I get a lot of
high school students write to teach them
asking me about that difference and it
is something key that we need to get
into you know everyone's minds
and thank you to Matt for all his like
brain and Miss Foster is because I get
them asking me like all the time like do
we only use 10% of our brains I'm like
no your brain is going 24/7 like it
never stops working and so my mythbuster
is based around my field to the
Alzheimer's disease and it's something
that I get asked by a lot of people and
it is that dementia is not a disease so
dementia what dementia is is a set of
symptoms and this couldn't manifest in
many different ways but the reason
behind these symptoms is the death of
brain cells called neurons so what
dementia is is this group of symptoms
which is caused by different diseases
and one of these diseases is alpha
so you can have Alzheimer's disease
meaning you have a dementia but if you
have dementia you don't necessarily have
Alzheimer's disease because there are
many different diseases which can cause
dementia so it's a question I always get
asked like what is the difference
between dementia and Alzheimer's disease
as one example or dementia is this
syndrome a set of symptoms and
Alzheimer's disease is a disease which
causes dementia so that's like you know
just more terminology based I think it's
so thread inside the media about these
people have dementia and it's like okay
yeah they do have dementia but we're not
treating dementia we're gonna treat the
diseases that cause dementia so just
separating them turns a little bit there
for you and that's it Thank You Julia
I'm sorry to straight back to you but
we've had a question that I think it
links in pretty much in to what you just
said actually so this has come from my
room over at nebula and says I've
noticed in different older people sadly
when they are in their final months they
all enter a stage of forgetting
everything losing the ability of making
basic calculations to be active who they
talk to
etc does the brain in their last months
of life enter a stage of outsiders or is
there another reason so with people as
they age they are more likely to get a
Dementor of some form the biggest risk
factor for developing a disease that
causes dementia is age and when you get
above 80 years old it's one in six
people on average will have dementia so
it's more so people live to that late
stage in life they are more likely to
have this brain tissue loss and what you
see with older people is that their
brain is a bit smaller it's like shrunk
post mortem compared to a healthy young
person and that is because you do lose
brain cells over time with any sort of
aging anyway but it's not necessarily
Alzheimer's disease or like a dementia
caused by another disease well yeah if
you get older the older you are the more
likely
to end your life with a dementia so that
could be why you notice it and you know
many different people with age awesome
thank you very much
um right there's another question for me
I basically I didn't feel like a guy
should be talking so much straight back
to you so the question for me as well
from unmoral Alvey who's asked me about
some of my recent videos I did on the
SAR model so I guess I can sort of
address it and so on oh I'm sorry let
make sure get the right name and yrel
sorry I'm moral has asked me if it's
possible to use the SAR disease model to
make predictions about disease about
infection rates in the future in short
yes but I would also add a massive note
of caution in that it is a model and so
any predictions about future events are
going to be incredibly uncertain and
rely on a lot of assumptions which might
not necessarily be true but in short the
SAR model separates the population into
three categories you have s which are
your susceptibles which are people that
can catch the disease you have AI which
are your effectives they're the people
that currently have the disease and are
spreading it and you have the R which is
the removed section of the population so
these are people who have caught the
disease and have then either recovered
or died so they've been removed from the
population altogether and what you can
do is you solve the set of equations and
you get a graph which looks something
like this and it's not gonna look
familiar to all of the coronavirus
curves that people have been seeing over
the last few months so you have your
your s is going to you start with
everybody is susceptible and then some
people catch the disease so that will
decay over time so at the beginning
everyone can catch the disease after
some amount of time nobody is longer
susceptible because the disease is gone
or they've all caught it you have your
infective switch starts very small and
then you increase because the disease
starts to spread so you have your
effectives which will go up and then
hopefully come back down so this would
be I and then you have your recovered so
again at the beginning nobody has caught
the disease and recovered yet but over
time gradually most people will catch
and then recover from the disease so
this one is our this one going up and
down is I and this other one is s so
this is time and so what you could do
with this model is you can then say well
if we are currently here based on the
data I have I know that most people are
susceptible I've had this amount of
infections you can sort of predict where
you are and if you want to know what
will happen and say two months you just
go along two months and draw your
vertical line now that would give you a
very very rough estimate and again this
is a super basic model the the SAR model
is like the absolute like first rung of
the ladder on disease modeling so real
models are way more complicated and give
you way more information but you could
in theory use the SAR model to make a
prediction about the future you just
look for where am I now based on my data
and how far in the future do you want to
make that prediction find that time
point and then just read off the values
you've got there from the model okay so
I hope that sort of answers your
question and we're out
thank you right I don't think there's
anything else so I guess it's on to
Round four home so this is a personal
fact so I'll keep mine short and sweet
because again I feel like I'm definitely
talking way more than everybody else
here so the personal fact I want to
share with you all which some of you may
know if you've seen some of my videos
before is when I was a PhD student I was
working on a particular project which
was looking at climate models and what
we wanted to do as part of this project
was we we ran some computer simulations
which came up with a prediction about
certain properties of the ocean that we
or were having a major effect on the
climate but were not currently included
in climate modeling so all of these
predictions we make about climate change
global warming etc these are based on
models and at the moment we had this
particular feature called sub meso
scales if you want the technical term
but we thought this was playing an
important role but we just didn't have
the data to back it up so in order to
get the data I was very fortunate and
got to take part in our piece of field
work we went to the Southern Ocean which
is the ocean around Antarctica and I was
on board a ship for six weeks which is a
very long time to be living on a ship
without making land and I've never been
to sea before as well so it was it was
definitely an experience let's put it
that way but a little bit crazy so six
weeks on a ship sailing around the
southern ocean near Antarctica
collecting this data and then we then
had data which we could then verify and
it supported our case that this
particular feature of the ocean these
sub mezzo scales were we think having an
important effect on the climate that
wasn't currently taken into account in
climate models so the hope is that next
time we run a big massive set of climate
models which is usually done every four
or five years hopefully our submarines
those scales will be included because
our data did suggest that they play an
important role so my personal fact is I
spent six weeks at sea and as much as I
loved it I probably would do it again
one of those glad I did it but you know
once is enough right over to you Gabby
all right so I have my dog here with me
for my personal fact and so I've always
been an animal lover up until I
discovered that research could be a
career I wanted to be a veterinarian and
so outside of lab I volunteer at a local
Humane Society um one of my biggest
responsibilities is walking dogs and I
actually adopted a rescue dog this is my
rescue dog Duke that I adopted during my
first year of grad school and um I
actually gonna be doing a podcast in a
couple weeks about why adopting my
rescue dog during grad school was the
best decision of my life
he doesn't want to hang out with me
anymore that's too bad um but because I
have an additional degree in genetics I
got some genetic testing done on him to
figure out his breeds and he is
five-eighths American Staffordshire
Terrier one-eighth boxer one eighth
standard Bulldog and one eighth Labrador
Retriever so that is my fun fact about
me just being an animal lover so over to
you Matt
I'm also minimal animal lover that
sounds great
so my little personal fun fact is that
when I was in high school and even
elementary I used to work with you
really hard kind of what Danny was
saying and I'm just working really hard
I thought you know because I was working
hard sometimes I didn't get the great
side it would have wanted and I didn't
understand because I was I was working
so hard but it just didn't go through my
results and I think once I figured out
the difference between being busy and
being productive it completely changed
the way I've been able to actually work
notion has been a large part of that
Danny I'm sure you know think about that
but yeah so I think once you learn how
to be productive and how difference
between studying and being productive
and studying efficiently especially
there's often debate between using music
are not listening to music when studying
and then there's different ideas but I
think once you find your own kind of
workflow when you're studying even
learning anything the possibilities
really Skye rocky and I found that why
don't i learn how to do that properly
everything else was simple when i had
time for things that were more important
to me like family and friends it's been
huge until you cut the Dina Thank You
Matthew
it's really interesting what you say
about busiest not equal to productive I
really I really need to get this into
your account but the person fact I want
to share is I should already that I'm
Italian
I'm from Italy but my native tongue is
German and that's what I wanted to
explain so why is it that not people
know about this why is it that's in
Italy there's some people talking German
as a native tongue and I show you all
right so I'm from this region it's in
the very north near Austria and we are
like half a million worth of minority
minority of German speaking in Italy and
that's the thing like we're completely
german-speaking of course their people
are bilingual but I didn't grow up with
Italian just in school I learned Italian
so with my friends
I just talked German and that's why I'm
not perfectly throughout in Italian and
I'm still Italian so I would tell you
but at the same time not really and the
thing is that's really interesting in
our region is that we talk German but we
don't talk standard German we took a
dialect so many German like people from
Germany and from Austria come to our
region because there's beautiful
mountains there's a lot of great nature
but they always have problems with the
Germans with with the German we speak
because you speak a dialect and I show
you something all right so this is how a
Monday I don't know if it's near it it's
like Montague Montague but we say
moontak so Germans wouldn't really
understand so we say step it's a bit
crazy then there's another word just
hello hello hello we say hi and I mean
we are able to speak standard German
it's just a bit different and so yeah
Germans and Austrians wouldn't
understand us from we spoke so that's my
little personal fact let's go to your
back sea plane thanks to that Katharina
and that was really interesting I was
wondering how you your native languages
German but you live in Estonia so yeah
so my fact is that I was born with a
cleft palate so it's basically a defect
in pregnancy my mouths don't fall from
this I was born with a huge hole in the
roof of my mouth and it kind of stopped
at the front of my mouth and some people
you can get cleft lips and palates and
that can go into your face as well but I
just have a comment so yeah lots of
operations and stuff growing up and also
lots of speech therapy so that my
friends wouldn't believe this but when I
was showing her I used to have to be
actively encouraged to talk but because
it was just really difficult to save
certain ways I'm not everyone would
understand me and it's still sometimes I
still struggle to say certain letters
and I'm quite nasally
that's quite a big part of my life a
childhood and it's just another quick
fun fact is I play a Dutch sport called
golf ball so it's about like Korf Bowl
and I don't know if if the only ones had
a bit in which hand just let me know
because I probably know you because it's
such a small school but in its own kind
of a mix between born basketball and you
have two halves of the court with two
posts so it's like you catch the ball
and stuff and yeah I play for in the
National League for my club here at
Bristol and I play for Scotland as well
because my mum's Scottish so I can
represent them so yeah any corporal
questions on my way
one thing you Danny that's actually
really interesting obviously my
undergraduates in sports coaching so
golf ball was one of the sports that we
that we went over and hammer was
actually like one of the sports I got
involved in so handball originates in
Germany France that sort of European in
II it's it's extremely small very
similar to call for in the UK and
whenever I'm playing handball locally or
nationally like I am we are definitely a
minority so when we're playing on court
there's like German Spanish French all
of them swearing in their own language
at the referee and I don't understand
any of it I'm just standing there like
whatever I say everyone understands it's
a very very quickly before like my
personal fact is a question I get quite
quite likely when everyone on a zoom
course quite cool business called
anything like that people think this is
a background it's actually my wallpaper
so I just put my camera up there and so
it's my wallpaper just sort of like
pudding out there because a lot of
people were like ask me oh where did you
get that where did you find that like
it's it's it's just my wall and so a fun
fact that one and some other fun facts
about me is I'm actually half deaf so I
can't hear anything this art at all so
that's why my mic is there and like
everything else comes out this side so
when we were doing like messing around
with stuff everyone could hear what was
going on like feedback because I had my
TV going on this side so I could hear
what was going on and my support is
trampling
what was is trampoline and because of my
hearing it messes up the what's called
of this vestibular system which
essentially like balance and obviously
on a trampoline you need good balance
it's needless
say it took a lot of time and to make
sure I didn't fall off and when doing
somersaults it took much longer to learn
them so doing doubles and triples
afterwards I got there but yes so being
half death or to say didn't help in in
sport but also it was it's good and bad
so at school I could lean lean on my arm
and I couldn't hear a thing or if I sat
on one side of the classroom and the
teacher was the other side I couldn't
hear a thing so and most teachers didn't
didn't bother asking or anything like
that I didn't look at my file maybe
could super lazy and very similar in
lecture when I was at uni they just
they'll be talking at me and people were
like nudging me like they're talking
yeah so yeah and my hearing is it's a
blessing and a curse
sometimes oh wow
okay so my fun fact is that well I also
love science I in my spare time I'm an
actress so that kind of what is much
room you to science communication and
wanting to do some fun videos and kind
of putting those two passions together
and in the last year I was in a horror
film a very indie very be horror film
which is really fun to you know pretend
to I guess kill people but that's not
really fun but the whole process if
being in a horror film is pretty fun as
you could probably imagine and then my
other fun fact is I am really into doing
wine tastings so if you can see this
picture up here and partly why I'm into
wine and go to a lot of wineries is
really again the science behind it in
the ecology and how you know it goes
from root to wine so I find the science
behind winemaking
super cool as well so that's me
not a real killer I
I'm tasting with you Chelsea any excuse
to get a rose Oh an excuse and actually
my just like the same as yours
Chelsea because I originally was very
torn in life between becoming a
scientist or become an actress so I have
this like multi passion of I obviously
love science but I've been performing on
the stage since I was like three years
old and throughout my university
undergrad degree I spent probably more
time in rehearsals for musicals than I
did in the library studying which you
know I should have like a part-time
degree in musical theater so yeah I'm
really really passionate about
performing and I dancing whatever put me
on a stage I'm happy and yeah that's
also what drew me to science
communication and I've been really
fortunate over the past well nine months
or so I feel
human which is sort of socially I can't
say much about it but it should be all
in the next month or so and I flew over
to America to film that and present it
so when that's all I will let you know
sorry I couldn't find a button to click
on mute being super I was too involved
in hearing more about your server
everyone's awesome passions right that
brings us the end of the fourth round it
doesn't it okay right I'll see you then
you'll spot any any questions get thrown
out for people these ones could be more
injured well I'm not more interesting
could be slightly different questions
seeing as we've all been talking about
the kind of stuff that we do not
necessarily when doing science well
first of all I wanted a more about golf
ball back see ya
what do you want to know well is it is
it the weird thing with the ball the
sponge ball that has holes they're
always like an odd shape no so it's like
it's a k5 so it's the same size as a
football or a netball and it used to be
an edible and it has recently moved to
some sort of phony spongy material and
so it's much more lightweight and the
posts are like three and a half meters
high
so weight all know that a basketball
post and no one can slam dunk and yeah
you just have to shoot it into the hoop
it's mixed gymnast we have four females
or four miles on each team I am kind of
like there's two of each down each end
so you have four people on each team on
each end and so yeah I was really good
for me growing up and kind of getting to
know different people and stuff and I
found it really fun at uni as well
because it's like great and you know
integrate tricks or and everything yeah
definitely give it YouTube because a lot
of people actually when I say call call
ask if it's either lacrosse is it the
one with the sticks or handball like new
tourney so yeah it's not it's like this
huge yellow post thing and it's a bit
like no all and all basketball okay I
think I was a million miles off that
sorry I think with it I don't know is it
called Quidditch no we have a we have a
credit Society at Oxford
I've never played but they actually meet
up every week play Quidditch games
even exist right Chelsea what's the film
called you're not getting away with
telling as you in a b-roll Hollyfield
Hollywood horror film and then not
telling us the name of the movie it is
called psychotherapy and it is on Amazon
there we go all right you know a big
horror film so and Matt there was a
question for you about a book you
recommend so do you want to just talk a
little bit about that I know you put it
in the chat but in terms of productivity
one of them was flow and flow is
essentially well I'm sure if you've
what's before you entered is kind of
weird state where you're just only
working and everything around you is
just kind of like non-existent and this
idea is called flow and there's a whole
book about it how to enter this state of
maximum productivity that's one bucket
really recommend a dinner book called
essentialism and it talks about what is
essential in life that's also a really
good book so those two books flow when
essentialism is a great start for
productivity
awesome thanks it's just gonna echo that
like they are they are good books
there's loads of books out there but I'm
just gonna echo that point double
recommendation from both Matt and Danny
there we go okay right thank you very
much everybody
um right I think we can dive into the
fifth and final round so we're going to
say some famous some sorry some facts
about famous people in our field so I
decided to talk about Pythagoras so
because I felt that most people will
have heard of Pythagoras I think it's
one of those things where even no matter
how much maths you've done in life you
have this equation a squared plus B
squared equals C squared
drilled into your head so much as a you
know doing maths at school that just no
most people don't remember what it means
but they know a squared plus B squared
is C squared so it's sort of related to
that so I thank this is very interesting
chap and I should say all of this there
is very varying amounts of evidence to
support what I'm gonna talk about I'm
not claiming this is truth there are
certain documents that agree with what
I'm gonna say and some that disagree but
you know you can do your own research
but I'm gonna focus on the fun fact the
there yeah that's see the fun side of it
so there are various accounts that
Pythagoras had very very strong views so
he was credited with this theorem which
was probably also he stole from other
people but we won't go into that but he
had very strong views about the fact
that everything in the universe in the
world should be made from whole numbers
so based on this idea of triangles and a
square plus P squared C squared this
sort of developed into a stronger idea
and that in fact everything was made
from whole numbers or ratios of whole
numbers so you're allowed fractions or
you're not allowed numbers that can't be
written as fractions so for example the
number pi would be a very big no-no to
Pythagoras back in his day and what
happened was he developed a school the
Pythagorean school and he was teaching
this this idea they were there many
other people as well we're teaching the
concept about everything can be written
as ratios of whole numbers and it kind
of was described in various documents as
a bit of a cult so first of all it's
potentially quite hilarious that there
was a mass space cult in ancient Greece
but this is you know some of the
evidence suggests this was indeed true
and these people game became fanatic
about everything being whole number
whole numbers and ratios of whole
numbers and then this trap hypothesis
comes along one day and he's studying
the most basic right angled triangle so
your side length a is length 1b across
the bottom is 1 and so your diagonal is
1 plus 1 is 2 square root of 2 so the
length of the diagonal is going to be
the square root of 2 and hip Asus showed
that the square root of 2 could not be
written as a fraction so he showed the
square root of 2 was an irrational
number
it's like 1.41 something something
something goes on forever so you cannot
write the square root of 2 as a fraction
and he persisted this very very clever
proof it was a proof by contradiction it
was possibly one of my favorite pieces
of maths ever because it was done so
long ago and was such an important
result showing us that some numbers
exists that aren't fractions but bless
him poor poor guy he did this but then
of course this goes against everything
that the Pythagorean cult believed
because he has just written down an
irrefutable mathematical proof so he's
used their own tools their own language
against them so they can't argue with it
and so what they did basically was to
sort of trick hip Asus and say well you
know well done well done mate let's have
a big celebration we're gonna have a
boat party so he went out on a boat big
ship went out to sea and they then tied
him up tied a load of rocks to him and
threw him overboard so poor he passed us
for doing this completely awesome piece
of maths and one of my favorite pieces
of maths showing the square root of 2 is
cannot be written as a fracture and was
literally thrown overboard from a ship
and drowned and murdered for doing maths
so and that was all coming from the
Pythagorean school so I don't I'm not I
don't know if Pythagoras was involved I
think this was a little bit actually his
time but an interesting story and I
so quite liked it because it shows that
well first of all mass is pretty badass
right like I dude got killed for doing
it all some piece of bats like that
that's that's just crazy so that is my
famous person
fun fact over to you Gaby that was he
crazy story oh my gosh oh and so my
famous person that I'm going to be
talking about is Jonas Salk so some of
you guys may have heard about him before
he is an American biologist and he was
um he got his MD in New York and he
decided that instead of becoming a
practicing physician he wanted to do
medical research and so he kind of came
onto the scene by developing the polio
vaccine and he developed it and
announced it at the University of
Michigan which is where I am currently
doing my PhD and so he announced it at
the University of Michigan Union and so
whenever I go by the Union it has a
little sign there saying that that is
where Jonas Salk announced that the
polio vaccine was completed and able to
be widely distributed so just a little
fun fact not only about my University
but about a famous immunologist so go
blue and right on over to Matt now
awesome that's actually very Quinton the
same University that's crazy so I think
I wanted to talk about someone that I
feel a lot of people know about it's
Albert Einstein particularly I wanted to
talk about a little bit about what I
want to be talking about in the video
without me doing really seen the next
couple days but essentially Einstein
just a little fun fact that Einstein
actually slept 10 hours a day slept
online but I think the important part
about that is the importance of sleep
and you connect if in a connection
between your brain and it's huge and
actually remembering topics for the day
before and some interesting things is
that I think it's very important to
remember your dreams I think something
that Jim quick talks about a lot but
it's so so vital because the DNA
structure for example that was from a
dream the periodic table K
from a dream right and if you miss out
you don't remember those dreams that you
have you miss out on a lot of potential
of discoveries that can be made in
science in math in order different
fields that were in so I signed it
because he slept so so much and he said
that he was able to create ideas and she
things that people weren't able to see
because he was anybody courageous
connections longer I don't recommend
sleeping 10 hours today but I do
recommend getting back to sleep priority
number one for sure thanks man
I was struggling with my sleep lately I
was just leaving in five hours but I
guess I shouldn't all right so a little
fact I have from famous people and such
as from one because I wouldn't like I
don't really know
famous colleague lots a few Christian
languages of course I know but like
there's not one that popped into your
mind so I want to speak of them all I
think I think have fun facts about all
of the polyglots is that many of them
didn't know they were good at language
learning and that's what they didn't
know that they were talented in the
language and that's the thing like now
well maybe yeah most of them good poly
got sound most of the people who know
many languages I can name
I can I can name Benny a very good
colleague Utz they started their youth
they started their adult life with
knowing one language and that's English
or I think many people in this work um
are the same like they start they didn't
they thought they were not talented in
learning languages but then actually
when they grow older when they grow more
passion about languages then they slowly
start getting into languages so that's I
think a fun fact about and many
polyglots these thoughts they were not
talented but the result that's that they
totally are
just because they were dedicated all
right Becky Anson you thank you and so
I've just got a couple my first ones
about Albert Einstein as well now like
they'd really like yours because I love
to sleep a lot as well so that's good
but yeah Albert Einstein whilst he was
married to his first wife he started
pursuing a relationship with his cousin
which is lovely and I think when him and
his first wife divorced it took about
three years before him and his cousin
got married and they were like blood
relatives to their mothers were sisters
such really fun another one is that
Marie Curie is the only person who have
won a Nobel Prize in two different
Sciences she won
one in physics for her work on radiation
and one in chemistry for her work on a
Radian and polonium I think so yeah
that's really cool well Marie Curie and
my third one is Stephen Hawking he was
given two years to live at the age of 21
so he was diagnosed with ALS at 21 and
he was told he wouldn't live past 23
which is really sad that he lived to a
lovely age of 76 which is really nice
and lovely so yeah on to you Donny I
felt like I'm really gonna under deliver
of the hearing all of those I'm like I
should I should have thought of
something better so I assume many of you
are familiar with Carol Dweck gross and
fixed mindset and if you're not
essentially she suggests you have two
different types of individuals and then
their mindset growth being you you
accept challenges and you push yourself
to develop fix being you're you you
don't you don't like challenge and you
try to avoid it and the fun fact is
actually that she's she's not going
against what she said but she actually
tries to turn it the other way around so
task orientation and ego orientation are
linked with gross and fixed mindset and
she's talking about a false growth
mindset so essentially people are
pretending that they have a growth
mindset and it's just interesting that
some of her research like previous
research on growth and fixed mindset
she's now not going against but she's
almost doing in mirror so a false growth
mindset and a false a false fixed
mindset and to me looking into
psychology obviously it's very theory
based and it's just interesting to see
how the how she is essentially mirroring
her research
going and going sort of like I was going
to use reciprocal then but Tom's here so
I probably said that's that's the wrong
word to use format but yeah so they're
sort of like doing that doing the
inverse of her research which which I
thought was pretty interesting over to
Jesse
all right so I'm gonna talk a little bit
about Charles Charles Darwin of course
with biology so as you guys probably
know he is known for the theory of
evolution and theorized that all species
came from a common ancestor that evolved
over millions of years and she called
this process natural selection um and he
published his ideas in on the Origin of
Species which actually took him 20 years
to publish from when he made his
observations so a couple fun facts about
Darwin that some people probably don't
know is he was actually born on the same
day as Abraham Lincoln
so in researching some fun facts about
Darwin I learned that obviously they
were in two different parts of the world
at the time and he was also a medical
school dropout so I just find that
interesting because he you wouldn't
think that unless you you know you knew
about it but also it means like he
wasn't doing what he wanted to do and
then he went on to discover evolution so
that's kind of an awesome thing to think
about yeah that's it on to you Julia
that's so interesting like yeah
definitely gotta follow your passions
like if you can do it
so should we and so with the field of
neuroscience it's relatively it's
relatively new that I want like you know
your big figure heads from hundreds of
years ago that you would necessarily say
there are neuro scientists so I went
with a man called John Okeefe I don't
know anyone's heard of him but he got
the Nobel Prize in 2013 for discovering
that in our brains there are certain
cells which map out your environment and
these are called placed cells so if you
put a mouse into a maze you can actually
track where it is in the maze depending
on different cells in this small region
of the brain so these cells sort of
light up if you're in the top left
corner a cell will fire and then if
you're in the bottom right corner a
different cell will fire
and it maps out your whole environment
so he wouldn't the Nobel Prize to that
and he's actually a professor at my
university so that's I went with him
because he lectured me the year he won
the Nobel Prize actually and then I
actually saw him in the pub like just
before lockdown and I was like John
Oakey the Nobel Prize winner so yeah
that's John and his idea really enhanced
the field of neuroscience and learning
more about what specific cells in the
brain
awesome Thank You Julia I have so I know
somebody I don't know if this is gonna
count as neuroscience and I'm gonna
apologize in advance because it probably
isn't seeing as it's not my field but I
happen to interview somebody in Oxford a
few years ago who was studying opto
genetics I know him he's my friends
dodge is it Giro yes right okay I was
gonna so for anyone like we're just
having a private conversation it'd get
zero reason book right yeah so it's a
awesome awesome chat and he's basically
and he showed me this experiment it's
crazy he takes a fly a little like
normal standard for house fly fly and
then alters like some setup in its brain
let's say from a non technical
perspective and then you can shine I
think it was he shined a blue light and
the fly was flying around happily then
the blue light turns on and the fly
landed and it instantly fell asleep
he was basically controlling the the
flies like you know it's behavior in
wanting to sleep by just activating the
part of your brain that makes you go to
sleep
it sort of implanted this trigger such
that if the fly saw blue light it would
know immediately it needs to fall asleep
like bang dumb out and I didn't believe
this and then he showed me the
experiment and it was the most
ridiculous like sci-fi Pig I think I've
ever seen because he was like actually
controlling the brain of a fly yeah he's
amazing he's like yeah founded
optogenetics which is exactly what you
said we can sort of implant something
into neurons a channel I'm going to
shine a light on it either activate or
inactivate that population of cells and
you can literally change an animal's
behavior but yeah he's my friends dog
that is quite a fun fact so she went to
UCL with me musicals together so he's
probably seen me dance around on a stage
that's you know compact awesome right
thank you everyone and we have now done
all of it haven't we Wow also what as I
said okay so there were a few other
questions so I thought we should just
ideally I think I've got a question for
any which everybody more or less so so
hopefully we can each just have a go
answering one final question
let's come in from the live chat and
then we'll call it a day
so who's gonna kick us off this it
depends on what autumn I wrote down
these questions from the jack I think
first of all I had one for Gabby
actually I said I have one for Gabby one
that's coming for you Gabby so this is
from Sam he was asked how does using
viruses for targeted treatments work um
so I haven't really done this much
before but a lab that was a couple labs
down from mine at Michigan State where I
did my undergrad did this with bacteria
so I'm guessing it's probably about the
same technique for bacteria or viruses
and so what he would do is he would take
bacteria or certain molecules that
bacteria were secreting and inject them
into tumors and so our immune cells
would recognize the either the bacteria
themselves or the different molecules
that the bacteria would secrete as
foreign and it would activate the immune
system because all of the source of it
was buried inside the tumor it would
kind of chop away at the tumor and
destroy the tumor in order to get to the
bacteria or the molecule that they had
implanted into the tumor so I'm guessing
it's probably the same thing with
viruses but probably just a little bit
different so I hope that helped
in answered your question
awesome Thank You Gabi right so I guess
Kobe said Sam I hope that was a answer
to your question and thank you very much
right when I written down next let's go
to Catarina
this is a question this come from me so
I couldn't know what I'd be what's the
easiest and hardest languages that
you've had to learn so you said you're
on your sixth language now yeah the
easiest at the heart it's like this is
this comes every every person's surely
has a different opinion on that but
since my language like my mother tongue
is German I think English was the
easiest to learn for me because it's
very similar to English German and
English and the hardest for me maybe
maybe Italian because I think Chinese
the grammar itself isn't that hard
I think it's on yin because it has a lot
of vocab and has a lot of grammatical
roots it's just not the same as German
and actually I'm Italian I said I'm
sometimes I speak a lot of Italian in my
sports fix our own speak Italian but it
needed a long time for me to even pick
it up yeah it's my answer Austin thank
you I I remember attempting to learn
Chinese myself a few years ago didn't
get very far but but yeah I did French
and you French for five years at school
and forgot it all as most people do if
you don't practice so yeah I wouldn't
necessarily say because you could
apparently I meant to be able to learn
languages because it's sort of links to
maps and patterns and things again I
don't know I'm sure somebody more
qualified than me can tell me if that is
nonsense or truth but anyhow thank you
right BEC see a question from Linda who
has a suspiciously the same surname as
you who is asked how does fusion
compared to other renewables yeah thank
you for that one mother and that careful
and you're lucky that I'm quick at maths
so and I think a wind turbine can
produce about three megawatts and
and the reactor the fusion reactor that
column of tryna produce should be
producing and I'm one gigawatt so this
means that one reactor would kind of
produce the same amount of energy has
300 turbines okay and then based on that
maths if one turbine can power one and a
half thousand homes in a year then a
nuclear fusion reactor should be able to
power half a million homes in a year so
that's kind of how it compares it's
about three hundred times better yeah I
hope I got that really told me you can
tell me like that that was some quick
math i reversed the reverse thank you
right Danny one for you again from me
I'm your smaller questions today I'm
intrigued where did your idea like the
first idea for notion come from what was
that like that moment of inspiration
where the lightbulb the sting the new I
I'm doing this this is gonna be
something I want to do well to start off
with it's it's not like my app I didn't
develop it or anything like that it's
just something I've used so essentially
when I was what was it I think like
beginning of third year and so I'd gone
through the I'm not gonna take any
because obviously my hearing I didn't
take notes because as soon as I write
down notes
I just couldn't hear what was going on
so I went through a stage of not taking
any notes and then realized I was
forgetting everything so I was like okay
I'll take loads of notes and then I just
had loads of paper everywhere that's
like now it's just a mess so I needed
something some way to store notes and I
went through some of you may know
Evernote and I've used Evernote but I
didn't like the fact that I take notes
put it in Evernote and then I would be
like where's it gone because it was the
same problem as having all the the
post-it notes in the paper and I've used
to duyst I've used Trello I've used a
sauna and then I could list a load of
other apps but bother and essentially
and I came across notion about beginning
of third year and said oh that over two
years ago now and and what I like about
it and what like made me stick to it is
you can build what you want so you could
just write down stuff and use it as a
dock you could just use it as like a
writing
four notes or you could then design it
so at the moment a lot of people are
using it as a website so instead of
using Squarespace of whoops you could
use notion completely free or you could
use it as a task manager for businesses
I'm currently using
I'm currently helping out a couple of
businesses for KPIs and opr tracking and
you know they've recently updated their
inline math so I'm sure you'll love that
but essentially you can create equations
in notion like all the actual drawings I
think it's like Kay tex and latex
language you may know what that means
but essentially you can put all like the
symbols and stuff in there and and then
with databases a notion you can surface
things that you want surface things you
don't want and essentially you can
create whatever you want as long as you
understand how the blocks work and which
is what my channel is about helping
people like build the space that they
want to use so I wasn't the reason
notion is is where I went rather than
anything else I think click up and coder
to others are quite common is they have
restrictions so you have to see in this
view you have to put these things here
notion you just make it the way that you
want you if you like bright colors put
those a bright colors on it if you want
it boring like white and black go white
and black if you want it really
complicated and have formulas and code
like I mean I've got like 40 45 line
long formulas to like one box so if you
if you want to do formulas and code you
can if you have no intention of doing
that you can just stick with your
writing write notes on a tick box so the
versatility I was just like I love this
I could do one so yeah awesome thank you
and later I use latex to write my PhD
thesis so I dunno what you're all about
there yeah yeah it's all about writing
those write those equations absolutely
all right there was a question for me
and then I've got questions for
everybody else but I figured I'll go
next because I get to choose because
apparently I be judged so Sam has asked
me why is zero factorial equal to one so
I first will explain what a factorial is
so a factorial is defined as follows
it's a mathematical thing we write
with an explanation mark so if I want n
factorial its n exclamation mark and
that just means n times n minus 1 times
n minus 2 all the way down to 2 and then
1 at the end and you just multiply all
of those numbers together so if you want
the factorial of a number it's just the
number itself times all of the numbers
smaller than it and stopping at 1 now
the where this comes from
is to think about although the
mathematical definition is it's the ways
of arranging and objects in a lot of
things about it let's say we consider 3
factorial n is equal to 3 I've got three
objects a B and C and then you can ask
how many different ways can I arrange
these 3 objects a B and C so for the
first object I could go well let's say I
could go ABC I could also go a CB I
could go this is hard to do B a c.b.c a
chem-7 equal to 3 times 2 times 1 which
is 6 which is exactly the same number
that I got from doing my exhaustive list
so if n factorial is the number of ways
of arranging n objects then if we're
interested in 0 factorial how many ways
can you arrange 0 objects the only
answer is 1 there's only one way to do
it and that's like to have nothing so
that's kind of why it's equal to 1 is a
way to think about it so the 0 factorial
like this is like the odd case
everything else hopefully makes sense
you've got two objects if you've got
just a and B you can have a B or B a so
there's two ways and 2 factorial is
equal to 2 so it makes sense for all of
them
0 factorial is the kind of odd case but
we say that it's equal to 1 because
there's only one way to have 0 objects
and that's just to have 0 objects
there's something else you can do so
that's why 0 factorial is 1
Sam okay right I got a question for
Chelsea what happen to my voice there
Chelsea question for you so you do
biology I mean I may be way off with
this but a lot of my friends who did
some form of biology got to dissect some
pretty cool things so I'm intrigued as
to what is the most interesting or wacky
or just any experiences you had with
dissections yeah I gotcha dissect a lot
in in college and I was a teaching
assistant so I got to do it every
semester for like four semesters and
nothing was really too wacky i dissected
like pigs and you know worms and things
like that but we also dissected dogfish
sharks and my one wacky experience was
that I dissected one that had baby
sharks in it and there was about four
little baby sharks in the dog fish so
that was really interesting and kind of
sad yeah that's my only like kind of
real weird experience with dissecting I
like how you describe dissecting a pig
is not a weird experience like is a pig
like I think I'm wrong
at high school I think I did a frog well
maybe we did a rat something like that
it was just walking as we got but yeah I
think pretty common and maybe in the
u.s. I don't know but um
vexy asks how I can dissect a worm it is
so small they're like it's really
another weird experience actually you
just kind of cut it down the middle and
then splay it open uh yeah it's kind of
gross - thank you
right we've got a question for Matt
which is it's come from Danny in fact or
how did you start using those over other
apps
Matt are you there have we lost Matt's
disappeared
I know we've lost Matt oh alright well
maybe we'll come back to your question
there daddy
we seem to have Matt seems to have been
lost too bad internet connections which
we don't know anything about at all when
trying to do this live stream right so
in that case I think just a question for
Julia then to bring us to the end so
Julia you mentioned you're currently
writing up finishing your PhD so I know
I'm not supposed to ask this because I
remember the you hating absolutely
hating Augustus questioned myself when I
was right to got my PhD but when are you
hoping to finish it and what are you
gonna do next I what's the big dream
goal yeah so I was meant to be
submitting in September but now with
lockdown and everything I haven't been
able to go to the lab and I did have
like a few bits that I needed to finish
off to like complete the thesis so now
I'm waiting for the lab to reopen and
for me to be able to get in to do the
stuff that I need to do before I fully
finish it's not the minute I'd like made
all my figures I can and currently
writing got my intro and then I will put
together the discussion as much as
possible but it's a bit hard and you
haven't got those final you know last
little pieces of the puzzle so yeah
hopefully I'm aiming for it to be done
by the end of the year in the sense of
all the lab work all the thesis
hopefully driver by the end of the year
and then after that I think at the
minute like the plan for me is to move
into science communication full-time and
take that passion for talking about the
brain and all the knowledge that I've
learned over the past eight years and
get that out to the general public so
yeah I'm probably going to transition
from academia into communication so yeah
that's a plan awesome you should do both
I can highly recommend both it's a lot
of work obviously but that's kind of
I'm super fortunate I am able to have my
life teaching aspect and a little bit of
research and then do like communication
as well but fantastic okay so I think
matt has now returned so Matt we have a
question for you from Danny yeah so
Danny wants to know why did you start
using the ocean over other apps okay
good question so I used to be the kind
of guy I always have a lot of ideas
going through my head and I used to
always read my notes in like the Apple
notes and I found that it was so kind of
disorganized and it wasn't any like
relation between notes and I once I
found ocean I found it through a youtube
channel called keep productive and then
quits then they also found Danny around
the same day so technically it was both
you guys kind of inspired me to start
notion but anyways so I started using
notion and I found it was amazing how
you're able to categorize stuff like it
wasn't folders like I think that's the
thing that's a huge misconception
it wasn't folders it was just like how
like pages are connected to other pages
and those pages have notes and it's just
it's hard to explain if actually showing
you actually notion but it's absolutely
genius how it works and it's completely
changed my workflow
awesome thank you okay right I'm going
back to gallery view I think we could
all be said to screen again right so we
that's it right we don't all five rounds
we've mounted lots of questions I
noticed there are some other questions
but we definitely want to keep this it's
already gone on for a long time so I
think I think hopefully we're all happy
you're all happy thank you everyone for
tuning in thank you to all of our
amazing other educators assemble team
four for taking part and sharing with us
their awesome knowledge and passion for
their subject and I guess final shout
out to say check out everyone's channels
if there's someone in particular that
you know you really have thought you
know you're interested in what they talk
about or the even them as a person I'm
sure we'd all be happy to hear from any
of you if you have any other questions
yeah if you have questions we haven't
answered if you write them in the
comments then we can all you know answer
them or send them individually etc so
again thank you for tuning in